# Fundamentals of Biostatistics (Rosner) — R implementations and issues

This repository contains R code, exercises, and analyses based on the book  
**"Fundamentals of Biostatistics" (by Bernard Rosner)**.  
The goal is to reproduce and explore the main statistical concepts using **R Markdown**.

---

# Author:
Karen Gomes
📧 kare.kgomes@usp.br
🎓 MSc Student in Public Health – University of São Paulo
🏥 HTA Assistant – NATS/UNIFESP-Diadema
💻 Focus: R | Biostatistics | Causal Inference

**Reference:**
Rosner, B. Fundamentals of Biostatistics. 8th Edition. Cengage Learning; 2015.

---

## Structure and main files

Each chapter of the book has its own folder with R Markdown files and outputs:

fundamentals-of-biostatistics/
|-- template.odt # A LibreOffice template for reports (can be cusmized and saved as .docx)
|-- chapter01/
|   |-- Chapter01.Rmd # Main RKarmdown file for Chapter 1
|   |-- Chapter01.odt # The rendered report
|   |-- data/ # Datasets used in Chapter 1
|   |-- plots/ # Graphs generated by the code used
|-- chapter02/
|   |-- Chapter02.Rmdd
|   |-- ...
|-- render_all.R # Script to render all chapters at once

---
  
Now, we're gonna see how to reproduce, step by step

# 1. Open Rstudio and install the required packages:
install.packages(c("tidyverse", "knitr", "rmarkdown"))

# 2. Render a Chapter previously downloaded:  
#You'll need to open the R Markdown file for the chapter you want to render, e.g., chapter01.Rmd
#So, you can run the following command in the R console:

rmarkdown::render("chapter01/chapter01.Rmd")

#Note that this will generate an output file (chapter01.odt) in the same folder.

# 3. Render all chapters at once:
source("render_all.R")

# 4. Customize the template:
#You can modify the template.odt file to change the appearance of the rendered reports.
#I made this template using LibreOffice, but you can also use Microsoft Word by saving it as .docx.
#Also, this template is optional and I used the main main Brazilian academic styles (Vancouver and sometimes ABNT).

# 5. Explore and modify the code:
#Feel free to explore the R code in each chapter's Rmd file.
#You can modify it to fit your own data or to practice different analyses.

# 6. Share and collaborate:
#If you find any errors or have suggestions, please open an issue or submit a pull request.
#Feel free to send me an e-mail!

---

This project aims to support learning and practice of biostatistical methods using R.